This is from the last line of page 11, and then let's continue from here.
"Win what? Win what? Follow with the lama. Your devotion grows, ever greater."
And while listening to the teachings, splint down, your mind is ever, ever more tamed.
And when anger and attachment and aversion gradually decrease, these are the signs that Dharma has
excellently benefited to your mind or the practitioners.
So those are signs of the achievement and signs of the realization, or signs of that we are
practicing, sign of the way of practicing.
Not practicing becomes the intellectual and the kind of record of history, but really we are
putting practices on it, to our heart and the practices.
This is the teaching. So devotion, what means devotion generally? Of course, we all know devotion,
faith and devotion.
But devotion, when you have the devotion, that means your confidence is strong.
Confidence, when you have confidence that there is no room of doubt and hesitation, you are
determined, you are set up, you are not lingering, not jumping everywhere.
You are set up. Because it's also contaminant. You feel so happy. I don't have a job. So many
things. You feel really happy.
So then, when you have that more confidence, then the obstacles cannot interfere in our practices.
What are those I mentioned three times, and you all know. Many of you know.
I grant Dr. Narodjana said, this is not just in the Narodjana teaching, but other teachings.
For the teaching, mention, watch out these obstacles. When you don't have the devotion, when you
don't have the confidence,
what are those? Wild mind. Mind has become restless. Mind has become.
And then, those are connected with such as calm in a different form of the wildness, stress force,
deep breathing, anxieties, and all these worries, all those become.
Then, the next one also could come. Not all can come at the same time, but then some degree of
regret, feel bad, feel guilty, and then you feel guilty,
and maybe start blaming yourself, or one's own self, or blaming the others. Others can become wild.
So those are the post and seconds. Wild. And then, mind has become, because our body has become
wild, we couldn't control it nicely,
and then become kind of a little bit of resentment post, resentment, or kind of harsh post. And
then, even when we try to meditate, it becomes more poggy.
More poggy minds. And then, maybe it becomes a little more laziness, and the sleepiness, laziness,
laziness.
And then, also, then start more craving, craving to the old pleasures of the senses, or reflecting
the pleasures of the past,
bring back, trying to cultivate that in mind and heart. More heart. And then, mind becomes poggy.
Oh no, sorry, not poggy already, I said. Then, doubt. Doubt and hesitation.
Skepticals. And we come now, can't be like completely. Now, we lost the balance of our courage and
commitment and confidence.
Those can happen even long-term practitioners, because the life of, for what? What is life of? Dev
otions.
Life of pain, or what you would know, language we use, worldwide we use, pain or the devotions.
When we don't have the pain, or when we don't have the devotees, even the nadir jubchi teaching is
all right in your ear, or right in your way,
kind of don't feel something, big things, and it becomes all, something.
Oh, this is nothing, I heard this, I heard that, I've heard this, they're saying these things.
And kind of like, in the sense of, look closely, kind of like mostly, don't great at that. The
authentic teaching. Why?
Because you couldn't end it, you couldn't connect it to the heart.
Courage, the force of those obstacles, was what great, great master Navarajan said, watch out these
obstacles.
They had like kind of a highness on the, on the road of path to the enlightenment.
They had like banditos on the path to the enlightenment. They were disturbed.
Our practice, this is not just only the way we were disturbed, our practice, but even when you have
those, those five different, those obstacles point in samsara,
our achievement will be demolished, become really completely jumbo, mumbo status, all that.
So that means, when we have the devotions, that means, as I said, it's confidence, feel the
precious, feel joy, appreciate it.
Oh, how wonderful, I'm now connected, I'm here, I can now develop.
From now, look to the, like read, read the books of the Malarepa.
Malarepa, when you read the books of the lifestyle of Malarepa, how delicious.
To his lineage, to the teachings.
He sings songs with pure joy, pure love, pure devotions.
As his devotions and all that grows, his realization is growing.
His realization understands the development, not just the realization of the true nature of mind,
but his knowledge is expanding.
Wisdom is expanding. He didn't go into, according to his story, he didn't go to the academics, or
in the cheda, in the community called cheda, or studying.
But when we read the life story, or the singing of his songs, it captures the essence of the Buddha
's teachings, really essence of the Buddha's teachings.
So simple, so kind of simple, and easy, and presented to us, and can't go in touch to penetrate to
the heart.
In the teaching, many times, in the teaching said, in those great masters saying that,
when you heard, heard, or when you read the life story of Malarepa,
when you read the guide to where the life story of Mother Satva was, if it didn't change your mind,
you don't make any change, then our mind is really hard.
But when you start reading of the life story of Malarepa, and guide to the way the life story of
Mother Satva,
then it's that unfilled something tender to our heart and mind. That means you're ready to settle,
settle and to grow.
Those are really teaching said. That Malarepa's realization started with one pointed unjakable
devotion.
Then, it becomes one of the greatest, greatest masters and Siddhas in the Buddhist historians.
So, then that is the sign of the realization.
And then, here you see, the next one is the second sign of teaching.
And as you heard the teaching, Subhana Yidana, your mind has become more trained.